- As you know, computers come in many different forms
from desktop computers to laptops,
to tablets and mobile phones.
These are sometimes referred to as personal computers
to distinguish them from other types of computers,
like calculators, smart TVs, or gaming consoles,
which are all technically computers too.
Let's take a moment here to look at the different
characteristics of the most common types of personal
computers and the types of uses that are best suited for,
a desktop computer is a computer that's designed to stay
in one place, like your office work area
or some other semi-permanent location
in your home or office.
Desktop computers are typically comprised of separate pieces
for the base unit, the monitor, the keyboard,
mouse and speakers.
These separate pieces, as well as the fact
that desktop computers have to be plugged
into an electrical outlet,
make them impractical for moving them
from location to location.
Laptop computers, on the other hand are computers
that are designed to be portable and all the necessary parts
to use the computer from the monitor, to the speakers,
to the keyboard and track pad mouse
are all contained in one device.
Laptops are also battery powered,
so you don't have to keep them plugged into an
outlet to use them.
Making them ideal for using in different areas
of your home or on the road.
Now, tablet computers are another type of portable computer,
usually even smaller and lighter than laptops.
Instead of having a physical keyboard and track pad,
tablets are touch sensitive,
meaning you tap and interact directly with the items
on the screen with your fingers,
or sometimes with a special pen called a stylus.
And when you need to input text,
a screen-based keyboard will appear.
Like desktop and laptop computers,
you can install software applications on tablets for work,
but they're lightweight and size also makes
them ideal for entertainment like for reading
electronic books or watching movies.
And lastly, smartphones are another type
of common personal computing device.
That's small enough to be held in one hand.
Like the other devices we've looked at,
you can install software on smartphones
to accomplish all sorts of tasks.
Although their size generally doesn't make them ideal
for complicated work.
Now, smartphones connect to mobile networks
to let you make phone calls,
but this connection also gives you access to the internet,
making it possible to communicate with others,
access your email, share files,
and perform a variety of other online tasks that other
personal computers typically require a wifi internet
connection to accomplish.
So depending on your needs,
you may find yourself using one or a combination of these
types of personal computing devices to get things done.